## Introduction

This is a continuation of the previous NBIS support issue #5868 (Drosophila neurodegeneration transcriptome). In the previous project, we got support from Vincent van Hoef. He recommended us to expand the data set with additional biological replicates. We have now received the sequencing data from the expanded sample set, and we would like to request help to analyze the new data. We were very happy with the help from Vincent last time and would prefer if he could do the analysis this time as well. This project and associated questions have been mentioned below:
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related neurodegenerative disease. More women than men suffer from AD, but men suffering from the disease often have a more rapid disease course than women. Little attention has been given to understanding the molecular basis of differences observed in males and females in terms of the outcome of AD. Transgenic Drosophila expressing human Aβ reliably recapitulates the neurodegenerative disease course, both in terms of pathology, shortened lifespan and behavioral disorders. Our data suggest that Aβ1-42 expression in neuronal cells induces more toxicity compared to expression in glial cells. In addition, we observed differences in male and female flies for lifespan and behavior. In this project, I wish to address two main research questions that is 1. Are the differences we observe in male versus female flies in be attributed to differences in transcription 2. Is there differential gene expression among neuronal and glial Aβ1-42 expressing flies which could be linked to differences in toxicity.
